What is UART
Write program to check whether the values filled in given suduko table are valid or not valid
Write script to know the how many error messages captured in the given log file
Write Test cases for the LIFT
What is System testing?
Difference between Severity and priority?
Explain about Jira.
What is role of CCB and who are members of it?
How do you set priority if CCB is not there ?
What is progressive and interlace scanning?
What type of scanning takes place in a phone(Interlace or Scanning)?
What is TS Reader Lite?
What is Dog Food Testing?
Difference between MPEG 1 and MPEG 2?
Differene betwwen H.264 and MPEG 4?
What are differnt type of video codecs?
Diffrence between Black box testing and White box testing?
What is NTSC,ATSC,DVB and PAL?
What is Smoke Testing and Sanity Testing?
If you are handing on testing team, If developer want to add new feature or module to an application. As a tester, what is your role and input to developer's team with regard to adding new feature.(repeated in next round)
Write a python script for searching an item in text file with three inputs?
read the directory where file is located.?
Read the file?
Write a python script to print a list items in line by line fashion?
Write functional cases for camera.?
Regular expression in Perl.?
Send a mail via smtplib in python
What is main approach for automation testing?
1. What is your approach for end to end testing?
2. what is split in python?
3. You are given with two dice, all faces are empty. write numbers in 12 faces of dice in such a way that, if you throw 2 dice a time. Any number should between 1 to 31(number of days in July).
4. You are in a situation where your lead/manager is on leave. developer is not responding well to your queries about testing issues. What is your approach?
5. How did you wrote scripts for invoking any application?
6. What was your method for stress testing using Perl?
7. How would you collect logs for audio call?
1. How would you collect logs for audio call, which audio codec is supported in CDMA phones
2. Difference between MP3 file and MWE file
3. write 7th and 8th digit of this series of numbers (0, 20,33,400, 505,600 ---, ----)
4. What is binary numbers, write binary numbers for 1-10
1. Write regular expression for validating the IP address ?
2. Write regular expression for validating the Email address ?
     Hints :
     1. Mail id contains . (dot)
     2. It may contains numbers(0..9)
     3. It may contains underscore(_)
     4. Domain name may be com,in,org etc
3. Write regular expression for validate the door number and pin code.?
     Hints :
     1. Read the xlsx file and fetch the address form the sheet
     2. Validate the address
         Ex - #129 2nd main road
              3rd cross vijayanagar-560040
4. Difference between qw and ""? Example
5. Difference between say and print ?
6. How to handle error condition in perl ?
7. Difference between use and require ?
2. Explain ADB commands.
3. Explain test cases you have developed.
4. What is sensor?Why it is used?
5. What is accelerometer?Explain in which case accelerometer is used.
6. Do you have some experience on sensors?
7. Write a program to reverse linked list.
8. Explain some ADB commands.What is "adb disable verity" command ?
9. How you will find glitch in audio playing?
Suppose audio is playing  and device is getting 'whats app' notification.So audio player is supposed to pause for a while.
But audio player is not paused.How will you debug?
2. Tell test cases for proximity sensor.
3. Tell test case scenarios for stress testing of proximity sensor.

