
Q:What is IPC and expalin the IPC mechanisms with their advantages and disadvantages?
A:well known

Q:What is the use of pthread condition variables.
A:Explanation: When you want to sleep a thread, condition variable can be used. 
  In C under Linux, there is a function pthread_cond_wait() to wait or sleep. 
  On the other hand, there is a function pthread_cond_signal() to wake up sleeping or waiting thread. 
  Threads can wait on a condition variable.

Q:WAP in which thread1 have to send message and thread2 have to receive message concurrently.
Q:WAP in which thread1 have to print odd  numbers and thread2 have to print even numbers concurrently.

Q:Explain the flow of signals.
A:https://www.bogotobogo.com/Linux/linux_process_and_signals.php

Q:What is the initial state of each process,What happens when a task is created,Explain task state space diagram.
A:https://www.studytonight.com/operating-system/operating-system-processes

Q:What are all the header files included in device driver Program?
A:well known

Q:Why Scheduling?
A:The Scheduling is the process of managing all the processes in operating system and running the processes at specific time.

Q:How do you register a signal in kernel ?
A:https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/80044/how-signals-work-internally

Q:what is signal? Phases of signal? types of signal ?, Does signal is synchronous or Asynchronous? why ?
A:https://www.linuxjournal.com/article/3985

Q:what is priority inversion?what are the methods to avoid inversion?
A: well known

Q:Difference between fork,vfork,clone,thread and excec?
A:well known

Q:Can we change the size of message in message queue?
A:

Q:Why semaphore? Difference between semaphore and mutex?
A:https://www.softprayog.in/programming/posix-semaphores
  https://www.softprayog.in/programming/semaphore-basics
  https://www.softprayog.in/programming/interprocess-communication-using-posix-shared-memory-in-linux
  https://www.softprayog.in/programming/posix-threads-synchronization-in-c
 
Q:Why we use exit in vfork? Is that efficient way?
A:

Q:Why mutex? When parent is adding a node and child should consume the node without any waiting ? What is the mechanism?
A:

Q:Process context and interrupt context?
A:http://www.embeddedlinux.org.cn/essentiallinuxdevicedrivers/final/ch02lev1sec3.html

Q:I have two threads t1 and t2.t1 adds element in array and t2 removes elements, execute using mutex and conditional variables.
A:

Q:flow of system call
A:

Q:interrupt vector table
A:

Q:Three process are available named as p1,p2,p3 . P1 wants to send some messgae to p2 . P2 and
       p3 are waiting to receive message from p1. P3 should not receive any message from p1.  How
       do you achieve this ?
A:

Q:give a practical application of semaphore?why you cannot use mutex over there?
A:

Q:modes of execution why 3GVAS  for user and 1GVAS  for kernel
A:

Q:program to create a daemon process
A:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17954432/creating-a-daemon-in-linux

Q:When do my init function executes in device driver
A:

Q:How you will find whether you are in kernel mode or user mode
A:https://blog.codinghorror.com/understanding-user-and-kernel-mode/

Q:How will you send signal from one process to another process
A:http://www.csl.mtu.edu/cs4411.ck/www/NOTES/signal/kill.html

Q:one process contains function definition write program to invoke the function from another process by using particular ipc
A:

Q:How to handle signals and write a simple code for it 
A:well known

Q:what are the signals that cannot be handled and explain why
A:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35569659/the-signals-sigkill-and-sigstop-cannot-be-caught-blocked-or-orignored-why

Q:How arguments are passed to system call routine in kernel space
A:

Q:mmap system call working.
A:

Q:ASCII full form?
A:ASCII: American Standard Code for Information Interchange

Q:What is Round robin scheduling?
A:

Q:Which is the default scheduling algorithm in PC?
A:

Q:How interrupt works?,How to handle interrupt?what is do_irq()
A:https://www.bogotobogo.com/Embedded/hardware_interrupt_software_interrupt_latency_irq_vs_fiq.php

Q:Diff betw polling and interrupt give one Example of polling?
A:

Q:How spinlock works?,If one proceess acquired spinlock and again another process want to acquire same spinlock 
 than what happens with another process?
A:

Q:What will happen if i used spinlock in single processor system.
A:


Q:If i want to make a new option in makemenuconfig to choose the driver entry point built in 
 or module than which file you need to modify?
A: well known

Q:How to add & where you add the driver into the kernel?
A:well known

Q:If you developed a driver and want to compile with kernel than what you do?
A:well known


Q:Do you know the board configuration and machine configuration file for your target board?
A:

Q:If i have a custom new board and kernel doesn't have bsp for this new board than 
 	What are the steps you follow to port bsp and what modification you have to do in kernel?
A:

Q:What are the tools required to build the kernel images?
A:

Q:If default config is not available than how you configure your kernel?
A:

Q:What is device tree and what is the use of it?
A:well known

Q:When probe invokes?,What is probe function and what exactly it contains?
A:well known

Q:Difference between kmalloc() and vmalloc()
A:

Q:If you observe any kernel panic, how you will debug.
A:

Q:Crash occurred in one core out of 8 cores how you will find which core has crashed and how you will debug
A:

Q:What is board file?
A:

Q:what is top half and bottom half, difference between softirq, tasklet and work queues.
 (i2c/spi/gpio)protocol explanation
A:

Q:From user level how we can access the hardware register ?
A:

Q:Explain Scheduler function?
A:

Q:What is stack overflow?
A:

Q:signal handler in the case of child ( when the signal wll be handled ) if  parent recieve signal and then creted child and child executed first then  when signal will be handled and who wll handle ? 
A:

Q:how open sytem call work( with file table, UFDT, IT)
A:

Q:diff bw unix and linux ?
A:

Q:What is preemption?
A:https://www.thecrazyprogrammer.com/2017/03/difference-preemptive-non-preemptive-scheduling-os.html

Q:Multitasking is implemented in software level or hardware support is also needed?
A:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_multitasking

Q:Any real life use where multiple resources are accessed in synchronization?
A:
                            
Q:How and Where counting semaphores are used explain?                                            
A:https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19455-01/806-5257/sync-34/index.html

Q:What do u know about multi-threaded applications?    
A:automatic error correction

Q:In which case we have to use spin locks 
A:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5869825/when-should-one-use-a-spinlock-instead-of-mutex

Q:When SIGBUS signal is generated?  
A:Bus Error (also known as SIGBUS and is usually signal 10) occur when a process is trying to access 
  memory that the CPU cannot physically address.

Q:How are default signals handled?                                            
A:https://www.tutorialspoint.com/what-is-default-signal-handler

Q:What happens if same signal is sent more then once?
A:

Q:If two processes uses one shared library, how the other process come to know  that particular library is already loaded in memory?
A:


where are the shared libraries loaded?

When are the shared libraries loaded in main memory? 

explain scheduling algorithm?                                              

What threads will share?                                             

About watch dog timer, How can we convert the the Watchdog timer interrupt(Its a software interrupt)to hardware interrup                                                                    
signals are part of IPC yes/no. Justify.                                          

what is multithreading and multiprogrmming.                                           

Explain concept of multtreading using CPU.                                          

what is pipeline.                                              

You have data coming from bus and Program Status Register will indicate whether data is available and you are processing 500 bytes of data and when you are processing 250 th byte,if PSR will indicate data is available, how do u handle processing data(either in drivers or normal way) with PSR indication?                                            

Is it possible to have dead lock situation where there is only one process  and only one resource.

How rm works ?                                             

What grep command will do?                                            
                                   
How are u going to check the default shell in your system ?                                    

How can u change the default shell ?                                         

What does this first line #!/bin/bash in the shell script indicate ?                                     

Which shell will interpret if u use #!/bin/csh as the first line in the                                   
                                      
What is the difference between  dup and dup2?                                        
                                   
In shell , how will you find the details of devices which have been mounted ?                                 

Write a program to generate 5 childs they run parallel?                                       

About umask                                               
                              
Explain the shared memory?                                             
                                  
What is the difference b/w hardware and software interrupts?                                        

What is privilaged mode ? Give examples?                                          
                                       
How the system call execution takesplace?                                           

Explain the context layers of the process?                                          

Which command you used to check shared library?       

Explain virtual address mapping? 
                                    
What is the difference b/w EXT2 and EXT3?                                         

What is journaling?                                              

What fsck will do?  --> check and repair filesystems                                       

Explain the imlplementation of Linux file system?                                          

What are the contents of inode?                                           

Explain about probe function?

How did you debug drivers.

Explain about what ever you used API for implementing drivers?

Explain About device tree?

What is device path?

What is dtsi, dts, dtb?

How did you compiled device tree?

what is input of dtc?

Advantage of device tree?

When device tree will invoked?

where did you write in device tree?

Tell members in device tree?

Explain about EEPROM Driver Read and Write Functions?

How we will come to know if one sender sending msg and received by reciever  which type of it is. (int, char, string)

write aprogram to send structure variables from client to server and chage in server like
     struct {
     	int a= 10;
     	char *ptr = “GESL”;
     	int c = 20;
     };

who will decide the size of datagram and where it will be store?

who is moving from .bss to data?

P1, P2 processes are there. P1 sending signal from P2 , how it will send???

How p2 will recognize the signal came  from P1 only??? which structure???

if home directory contains libstr.a libstr.so then while including which one is included in your program(static or dynamic library)?i.e.. cc main.c -L /home/  -lstr
ans:static library  

If signal is SIGINT then how u handle the signal ?if u handled what  will happen?

open a file which contails some 1000 lines ,using system call how u will count total number of      words in it?

Types of file sytem? Explain the content of superblock,inode list?

Expalin booting process?what is the pid of init & swapper?

what is real uid ,effective uid & setuid?

You have data coming from bus and Program Status Register will indicate whether data is available and you are processing 500 bytes of data and when you are processing 250 th byte,if PSR will indicate data is available, how do u handle processing data(either in drivers or
normal way) with PSR indication?  

What are different IPC mechanisms? Which ipc do u prefer and why? What is deadlock? Which ipc did u use in project and why? How is synchronization achieved, give example? How does Mutex work? Did you work on shared memory? What is critical section? How do u avoid deadlock?

About watch dog timer, How can we convert the the Watchdog timer interrupt
	   (Its a software interrupt)to hardware interrupt

what is multithreading and multiprogrmming.



















  
In case of paging system suppose reading is happened at the end of one page.  How it locates the next address to read ?

Q:If one code is written to the system which does not support paging, What changes has to be made to run it on the
  system which supports paging ?
A:


What is TLB?

What happens when there is no entry in TLB?

What is the difference between page fault and segmentation fault?

What is memory management?

What is VFS ?

What is demand paging?

What is the need of virtual address.

Why paging ?

Why segmentation?

What happens when page fault occurs.

why virtual memory.                                       
                         
What is TLB hit and miss ?

What happen when TLB miss and hit?

Why VFS?How vfs is able to do operation in different filesystem?

What is the maximum size the data can be stored in files? How we can store exceeding that?

Structures maintained by VFS?and use of each?

How the session is created ?

How the traversing through the structures happens when open() is called in various filesystems?

How the file last accessed and modified time can be known without ioctl()?

When various files is opened and memory allocation is done and file is not closed and memory aloocated is not freed, what will happen? Will it be closed automatically? Or what happens?

Physical address space and virtual address space?

Why 3G for user and  1GB for kernel? Cane we change it?

When USB is plugged it should not work

Kernel page tables

Q:major and minor number
A:

why virtual address space?

Disadvantages of physical address?

superblock and inode structure members ?
 
how file can be identified                                             
                                     
what are the contains of inode tables

define namei algorithm

What happens if we use only virtual address without physical address

Diff btw sdram and dram?

Types of ROM?

Q:Can we have same major number for more than one device file?
A:

What happened when PC start (Boot process )?

About i2c.... Spi and i2c Diff?

What is virtual address and physical address?                                          

How virtual address is mapped into physical address? Which hardware does it?   


What is the Use of gpio pins?


Soft and hard rtos Diff?

Monolithic and micro kernel Diff?

What is Initramfs, initrd,rootfs and ramfs?

what are the steps to bring-up the board?


How i2c protocol works?

What are the i2c API you used in your project?

How you read the data from rtc?

Explain I2c framework in linux kernel.

Q:Explain physical memory layout. Explain different segments.                                          
A:


















link for threads :
link :http://interviewquestionsanswers.org/_Linux-Threads

Digital Electronics:

1.what is active low signal.
2.discussion on logic gates(AND ,OR ,NOT,XOR,XNOR);
3.discussion on MUX.
4.power gateing and Edge gating...?
5.what is PLL and PLC...?
6.what is pipeling
7.tell me any processor ..?
8. memory hirarcy
9.what is cache memory..why using cache memory
10.cache ratio 
11. how cache memory interact with processor..?
12.ARM ARCHITECTURE...?


1.deadlock scenarios?
3.what is flipflop ?and types?
4.latch?
5.diff b/w latch and flipflop?
6.explain about PCM?
7.sampler,quantizer,sampling rate?
8.samping error?
9.what is mosfet?
10.diff b/w pmos and nmos?
11.What is Op-Amp?problems on  Op-Amp?
12.what is Nyquist rate?
15.Explain android flow of display subsystem?


























